examples/polars/README.md, before:

# Classic Hamilton Hello World

In this example we show you how to create a simple hello world dataflow that
creates a polars dataframe as a result. It performs a series of transforms on the
input to create columns that appear in the output.

File organization:

* `my_functions.py` houses the logic that we want to compute.
Note (1) how the functions are named, and what input
parameters they require. That is how we create a DAG modeling the dataflow we want to happen.
Note (2) that we have a custom extract_columns decorator there for now. This is because we don't have
a way to parameterize the dataframe library for the extract_columns function yet. This will be fixed in the future.
* `my_script.py` houses how to get Hamilton to create the DAG, specifying that we want a polars dataframe and
exercise it with some inputs.

To run things:
```bash
> python my_script.py
```

If you have questions, or need help with this example,
join us on [slack](https://join.slack.com/t/hamilton-opensource/shared_invite/zt-1bjs72asx-wcUTgH7q7QX1igiQ5bbdcg), and we'll try to help!

Commit message:

Adds caveat to Polars README
So polars does not have an index, so when creating
a dataframe, at the end, one has to be careful that things
align and are the right length, etc. else things will break.

examples/polars/README.md, after:

# Classic Hamilton Hello World

In this example we show you how to create a simple hello world dataflow that
creates a polars dataframe as a result. It performs a series of transforms on the
input to create columns that appear in the output.

File organization:

* `my_functions.py` houses the logic that we want to compute.
Note (1) how the functions are named, and what input
parameters they require. That is how we create a DAG modeling the dataflow we want to happen.
* `my_script.py` houses how to get Hamilton to create the DAG, specifying that we want a polars dataframe and
exercise it with some inputs.

To run things:
```bash
> python my_script.py
```

# Caveat with Polars
There is one major caveat with Polars to be aware of: THERE IS NO INDEX IN POLARS LIKE THERE IS WITH PANDAS.

What this means is that when you tell Hamilton to execute and return a polars dataframe if you are using the
provided results builder ('hamilton.plugins.polars_implementations.PolarsResultsBuilder'), then you will have to
ensure the row order matches the order you expect for all the outputs you request. E.g. if you do a filter, or a sort,
or a join, or a groupby, you will have to ensure that when you ask Hamilton to materialize an output that it's in the
order you expect.

If you have questions, or need help with this example,
join us on [slack](https://join.slack.com/t/hamilton-opensource/shared_invite/zt-1bjs72asx-wcUTgH7q7QX1igiQ5bbdcg), and we'll try to help!

Otherwise if you have ideas on how to better make Hamilton work with Polars, please open an issue or start a discussion!
